All right,
let's talk about error handling.
I'm gonna push this up, and
we'll talk about error handling,
which we desperately need as you saw.
[LAUGH] So if we go over to the site,
we can talk about errors.
So how do errors work in Express,
or even node?
Anyone knows what happens if
you throw an error at node?
Ever tried to do that before,
check this out, so if I go,
was gonna go a little JavaScript file
right click, it's gonna call it error.Js.
I'm gonna go in here, I wanna throw there.
If I run this file,
what you think is gonna happen?
>> Pop up?
>> Yeah, it's just got a break.
I mean, even the linter knows what's gonna
happen, it literally dimmed out this code,
it's like this code is never gonna run.
What are you doing?
This is gonna break everything, right?
So if I go to terminal and
I type in node and I run that file,
it literally just breaks immediately.
Okay, your server,
because it runs a node is no different.
It too will do that.
It will just break whenever
there's an error, but
Express knew that, so
this kind of saved us a little bit.
What Express does, Is that any error
that is thrown inside of a handler or
a middleware,
basically inside the framework.
If it's a synchronous error, we'll talk
about asynchronous errors in a minute.
If it's a synchronous error,
Express will catch that error for you,
to prevent your server from crashing.
And that's why on some errors
we'll get back that HTML page,
that's Express setting that back
cuz it caught the error for us.
And I was like, you didn't do a try catch.
Don't worry, I got you, I did it for you,
and it sent back that HTML document.
And we could test that.
So if I go to, I'm gonna delete this file,
we don't need this file.
I'm just gonna make, I don't know,
a quick little route right quick.
So I'm gonna go to server.
Actually, let's do it right
here on the get to slash.
I'm just gonna throw an error, so
I'm just gonna say,
throw new error, hello.
So I'm gonna throw that error,
Start my server,
and I'm gonna make a request to that.
All right, so you can see right here,
I get this HTML back.
This is Express.
Express is like, if I would have put this
on a screen, it would show the stack
trace and everything on
the screen in the browser, right?
This is just raw HTML.
I can actually go to the browser and
show you.
All right, so you get this back.
This is what Express is getting back,
but our server's still on,
it didn't crash, still running.
Express caught the error, it was like,
it's a 500 error because you didn't catch
it, that means your server's messed up.
So it's a 500, and then don't worry,
I'll tell you what it was.
That's cool, but you probably don't wanna
be showing this to your users, okay.
And second of all,
it might not have been a server error.
It could have been a user error,
you just didn't catch it.
And it could have been anything.
It might not have been your fault,
but you didn't handle it.
So Express handled it.
We probably won't override this,
and we will, and we can.
And the way that you do that,
is with their own error handler.
So, basically,
you can create an error handler and
Express the same way you
create a middleware,
or a database handler, or route handler.
The only difference is that it
has basically four arguments.
Where's the first argument is
the error that was thrown, and
everything else is what you already know.
That's it.
Other than that, it can do the same
thing any other handler can do,
the same thing any other
middleware can do.
The only difference is where you put it,
because an error handler can't catch
an error until the error was thrown.
So that means the error handler
has to come after all the routes.
If you made an error handler before route,
like you told app.use, hey,
here's my error handler.
And then after that you made all your
routes, that handler would never catch
the errors because it was
registered before your routes were.
So Express would never bubble your
errors up to that error handler.
So basically,
you need to make sure you register your
error handlers at the bottom
of all your routes, so
that they can be caught
by your error handler.
And that looks like this.
So if I were to go into the code and
I were to make an error handler for
the thing that we just did, so you can
see I have this error being thrown.
I'm gonna go down here,
underneath everything, and
I'm gonna say app.use this error handler,
req, res, next.
And I can log this error.
I can say, log this error and
I'm just gonna say res.json,
not jon, I don't know who jon is,
that jon,
message, oops, there was an error.
I could do that.
I'm gonna log it so I can see it, but
then I'm gonna send this back to the user,
something a little different.
So now if I say, run that, And
then go back here and refresh,
look, I get that custom message.
And in the terminal I still logged it.
So my error handler took over
from what Express already had.
And you could do whatever
you want in here.
You could do asynchronous things in here,
too.
So this is a perfect place to add
instrumentation, error logging,
error reporting,
all that stuff, it's perfect.